first thing we always want to do
is sanitize our station down,
so got the sanitizer here,
spray that nice, get some paper towel
and you really want to vigorously
give this a good wipe down.
This will kill any bacteria
that might be on there.
So before we even start
getting ready to cut any meat or
any type of preparation, we're starting
with a clean and sanitized workstation.
Just going to get a little mat.
This is a plastic mat.
Sometimes this is bar matting as well
Actually, you might say in the industry,
you can put glasses that stops
it slipping
and then I'm going to get my cutting board
and I put my cutting.
But I always want to check that it's flat.
Sometimes as cutting boards get older,
they sort of bevel a little bit as well.
So you want to make sure
you've got the flatter side
that will go onto that mat.
And this stops any type of movement
a lot of times in the industry
or even at college.
You're not going to be on a wooden board.
You'll actually be on stainless steel.
That stainless steel can make it slip,
so you want to make sure that it is very,
very secure.
Also, in the industry, what you will see
is different color cutting boards.
These are all used for different
applications.
Brown is used for cooked meat.
Red this one here is used for raw meat.
Blue raw, raw fish and seafood.
Green vegetable and fruit preparation.
Yellow is for raw poultry
and you can also get the white one,
which we got here
is used for bakery and dairy product.
These will be used
to avoid cross-contamination,
so you will never use a red board
like this for any other application.
Apart from raw meats.